Good morning, and happy Easter. It's Sunday, April fifth, twenty
twenty-six. I'm your daily briefing, and we've got a big
one. Let's start with the headline: the missing pilot is
home. After two days behind enemy lines in the mountains
of Iran, with Tehran offering a sixty-thousand dollar bounty and
two rescue helicopters taking fire, the U-S military pulled off
the extraction. He's alive and receiving medical treatment. That's the
best news out of this war in weeks. But the
clock is already ticking on something else. President Trump issued
a forty-eight hour ultimatum yesterday demanding Iran reopen the Strait
of Hormuz or face, quote, all hell. That deadline expires
tomorrow, Monday, April sixth. Iran's response? They called it helpless
and unbalanced. This is now the fourth time Trump has
set a Hormuz deadline and moved it. The pattern: dramatic
threat, quiet diplomatic extension. But each iteration raises the stakes.
Indirect negotiations are happening via Pakistan, with Vice President Vance
and Iran's parliament speaker talking through intermediaries. The question isn't
whether he'll follow through tomorrow. It's whether the repeated escalation
makes it harder to back down. Meanwhile, the D-H-S shutdown
hit day fifty. The Senate passed a funding bill, but
the House is on Easter recess until April fourteenth. Thirty-five
thousand workers missed paychecks. Five hundred and ten have quit
permanently. No resolution before mid-April. Now for the really exciting
stuff. Artemis Two is on flight day four, deep in
space, preparing for tomorrow's lunar flyby. The window runs from
two forty-five to nine forty P-M Eastern. The crew will
surpass the Apollo thirteen distance record by over four thousand
miles, reaching two hundred fifty-two thousand seven hundred fifty-seven miles
from Earth. There's a planned communications blackout around five forty-seven
P-M when Orion passes behind the Moon. Four humans, farther
from home than anyone has ever been. On the A-I
front, Anthropic introduced a multi-agent harness on Friday for autonomous
application development. This is the bridge between Claude as a
chatbot and Claude as a system that builds things. They
also started billing third-party tools like Open-Claw separately as of
April fourth, and raised the max tokens cap to three
hundred thousand for batch processing. The private market is hot:
Anthropic is the most sought-after trade in secondary markets, though
the SpaceX I-P-O might drain capital from everything else. Speaking
of which, SpaceX filed confidentially to go public, targeting a
one-point-seven-five trillion dollar valuation. Thirty percent allocated to retail investors.
If completed, it would be the largest I-P-O ever, dwarfing
Saudi Aramco's twenty-nine billion debut. Axios A-M ran a deep
piece on what they're calling Trump's war wager: the one-point-five
trillion dollar defense budget as the transformation of his presidency
from populist to wartime interventionist. Defense up forty-two percent. E-P-A
cut fifty-two percent. National Science Foundation cut fifty-five percent. The
coalition that delivered Trump his second term relies on the
programs being gutted to fund the military. Congressional Republicans face
what Axios calls a brutal choice. Locally, the U-S fifty
bridge demolition started last night. Ramps are closed through April
twelfth. Proposition A, the capital improvement sales tax renewal for
Cole County, is Tuesday. Two days out. The weather is
beautiful. Sixty degrees and sunny in Jefferson City, clear tonight
with a low of thirty-eight. Tacoma gets sixty-five and partly
sunny. Both cities having a nice Easter. No calendar events
today. Easter Sunday. Lunch with Mom and Dad needs a
time confirmation. Tomorrow is packed: the Artemis flyby and the
Iran ultimatum deadline on the same day. A few things
worth noting: you paid your bills yesterday. Ameren, one hundred
fifty dollars and eighty cents. J-C Utilities, twenty dollars and
fifty cents. American Water, confirmed. Roborock floor accessory ordered and
shipped. The adulting energy is strong. And on the creative
side, five chapters of The Keeping House in five days.
That streak was extraordinary. Saturday was a rest day. Let
the well refill. That's your Easter Sunday briefing. The pilot
is home, the ultimatum is ticking, and four humans are
about to fly behind the moon. Go have lunch with
your parents. Your briefing, delivered.